Adding Hive detailed, tenant grafana dashboard (#17127)
ydb-platform/ydb: ydb/docs/en/core/reference/observability/metrics/grafana-dashboards.md

| Other | Other metrics |

Download the [datashard.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ydb-platform/ydb/refs/heads/main/ydb/deploy/helm/ydb-prometheus/dashboards/datashard.json) file with the **DataShard** dashboard.

## Database Hive {#database-hive-detailed}

[Hive](../../../contributor/hive.md) metrics for the selected database.

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
| hive+balancer | CPU time utilized by HIVE_ACTOR and HIVE_BALANCER_ACTOR |
| hive event response time | How much time it takes for Hive to respond |

> | hive local transaction times | CPU time utilized by Hive when executing local transactions |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| hive local transaction times | CPU time utilized by various local transaction types in Hive. Shows the structure of Hive load based on different activities. |
```

> | {{local-tx}} avg time | Count and average execution time of {{local-tx}} transactions. Transaction type {{local-tx}} is set in the filter on the dashboard |

Reviewer 2: `{{ foo }}` is part of the Markdown syntax to use a variable value, and the `{{local-tx}}` variable doesn't seem to be defined, so you probably meant to just write this in text, which needs escaping.

> | {{local-tx}} avg time | Count and average execution time of {{local-tx}} transactions. Transaction type {{local-tx}} is set in the filter on the dashboard |

Reviewer 2: Describe the dashboard filters separately and what they do.

> | {{local-tx}} avg time | Count and average execution time of {{local-tx}} transactions. Transaction type {{local-tx}} is set in the filter on the dashboard |

Reviewer 2: List all possible `{{local-tx}}` values with some explanations.

Author: There are 67 types of transactions - I'm not sure this article is the best place to list them. In my view, we could add the description of them (or the most important ones) to the hive documentation: https://github.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/main/ydb/docs/en/core/contributor/hive.md

Reviewer 2: Let's create a ticket/issue for that

> | {{local-tx}} avg time | Count and average execution time of {{local-tx}} transactions. Transaction type {{local-tx}} is set in the filter on the dashboard |

Reviewer 2: Describe what happens if nothing is selected on the filter.

Author: This list is formed by fetching all possible transactions names from YDB counters metrics. There are no empty names, so it's not possible to select an empty value in the filter.

> | {{local-tx}} avg time | Count and average execution time of {{local-tx}} transactions. Transaction type {{local-tx}} is set in the filter on the dashboard |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `{{local-tx}}` avg time | Average execution time of a single local transaction for the type specified in the `local-tx` parameter selector on the dashboard. (`{{local-tx}}` appears when no transaction type is selected). |
```

| tablet count | Total tablets count in the database |

> | event queue size | Database hive event queue size |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| event queue size | Size of the incoming event queue in Hive. Consistently high values indicate Hive cannot process events fast enough. |
```

> ## Database Hive {#database-hive-detailed}
> 
> [Hive](../../../contributor/hive.md) metrics for the selected database.
> 
> | Name | Description |
> |---|---|
> | hive+balancer | CPU time utilized by HIVE_ACTOR and HIVE_BALANCER_ACTOR |
> | hive event response time | How much time it takes for Hive to respond |
> | hive local transaction times | CPU time utilized by Hive when executing local transactions |
> | {{local-tx}} avg time | Count and average execution time of {{local-tx}} transactions. Transaction type {{local-tx}} is set in the filter on the dashboard |
> | tablet count | Total tablets count in the database |
> | event queue size | Database hive event queue size |
> | versions | Versions of YDB running on cluster nodes |
> | hive node | Node where the database hive is running |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Database Hive {#database-hive-detailed}

[Hive](../../../contributor/hive.md) metrics for the selected database.

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
| hive+balancer | CPU time utilized by HIVE_ACTOR and HIVE_BALANCER_ACTOR |
| hive event response time | Time it takes for Hive to respond |
| hive local transaction times | CPU time utilized by Hive when executing local transactions |
| {{local-tx}} avg time | Count and average execution time of {{local-tx}} transactions. The transaction type {{local-tx}} is set in the filter on the dashboard. |
| tablet count | Total number of tablets in the database |
| event queue size | Size of the database Hive event queue |
| versions | Versions of {{ ydb-short-name }} running on cluster nodes |
| hive node | Node where the database Hive is running |
```

The dashboard includes the following filters:
* database – selects the database for which metrics are displayed
* ds – selects the Grafana data source the dashboard will use
* local-tx – determines the data displayed on the "`{{local-tx}}` avg time" widget

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
| hive+balancer | CPU time utilized by `HIVE_ACTOR` and `HIVE_BALANCER_ACTOR`, two of the most important actors of the Hive tablet. |
| hive self-ping time | Time it takes Hive to respond to itself. High values indicate heavy load (and low responsiveness) of the Hive. |
| hive local transaction times | CPU time utilized by various local transaction types in Hive. Shows the structure of Hive load based on different activities. |
| `{{local-tx}}` avg time | Average execution time of a single local transaction for the type specified in the `local-tx` parameter selector on the dashboard. |
| tablet count | Total number of tablets in the database. |
| event queue size | Size of the incoming event queue in Hive. Consistently high values indicate Hive cannot process events fast enough. |
| versions | Versions of {{ ydb-short-name }} running on cluster nodes. |

> | hive node | Node where the database Hive is running. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| hive node | Node where the database Hive is running. |

Download the [datashard.json](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ydb-platform/ydb/refs/heads/main/ydb/deploy/helm/ydb-prometheus/dashboards/database-hive-detailed.json) file with the **Database Hive** dashboard.
```

> | hive+balancer | CPU time utilized by HIVE_ACTOR and HIVE_BALANCER_ACTOR, the two of the most important actors of the Hive tablet. |
> | hive self-ping time | Time it takes Hive to respond to itself. High values indicate heavy load (and low responsiveness) of the Hive. |
> | hive local transaction times | CPU time utilized by various local transaction types in Hive. Shows the structure of Hive load based on different activities. |
> | `{{local-tx}}` avg time | Average execution time of a single local transaction for the type specified in the `local-tx` parameter selector on the dashboard. |
> | tablet count | Total number of tablets in the database. |
> | event queue size | Size of the incoming event queue in Hive. Consistently high values indicate Hive cannot process events fast enough. |
> | versions | Versions of {{ ydb-short-name }} running on cluster nodes. |
> | hive node | Node where the database Hive is running. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| hive+balancer | CPU time utilized by `HIVE_ACTOR` and `HIVE_BALANCER_ACTOR`, two of the most important actors of the Hive tablet. |
| hive self-ping time | Time it takes Hive to respond to itself. High values indicate heavy load (and low responsiveness) of the Hive. |
| hive local transaction times | CPU time utilized by various local transaction types in Hive. Shows the structure of Hive load based on different activities. |
| `{{local-tx}}` avg time | Average execution time of a single local transaction for the type specified in the `local-tx` parameter selector on the dashboard. |
| tablet count | Total number of tablets in the database. |
| event queue size | Size of the incoming event queue in Hive. Consistently high values indicate Hive cannot process events fast enough. |
| versions | Versions of {{ ydb-short-name }} running on cluster nodes. |
| hive node | Node where the database Hive is running. |
```
